you
so let's plug in these smoothing methods
into the ranking function to see what we
will get
okay though this is a general smoothing
sorry general ranking function for
smoothing with subtracting a model you
have seen this before and now we have a
very specific and smoothing method on
the JM smooth method so now let's see
what what's the value for alpha sub D
here and what's the value for P sub seen
here right so we may not need to decide
this in order to figure out the exact
form of the ranking function and we also
need to figure out of course alpha so
let's see
well this ratio is basically this right
so here this is the probability of
seeing word on the top and this is the
pump in the unseen world or in other
words lemon is basically the alpha here
this so it's easy to see that this can
be then rewritten as this very simple so
we can plug this into here and then here
what's the value for other what do you
think will be just lambda right and what
would happen if we plug in this value
here if this is lambda what can we say
about this this is will depend on the
document no so it can be ignored right
so we'll end up by having this ranking
function shown here and in this case you
can easily see this is precisely a
vector space model because this part is
the sum over all the match the query
times this is the element of the query
but what do you think is the element of
the document Raptor well it's this so
that's our document vector element
and let's further examine what's inside
this logarithm
so one plus this so it's going to be
non-negative
this mug of this it's going to be at
least one right and this is a parameter
so lambda is parameter and let's look at
this and this is the EF now we see very
clear that is TF waiting here and the
larger the country's the higher the
waiting with me we also see IDF
weighting which is given by this and we
see talking the lens law relation here
so all these heuristics are captured in
this formula what's interesting that we
kind of have got this weighting function
automatically by making various
assumptions whereas in the vector space
model we have the go through those
heuristic design in order to get this
and in this case note that there is a
specific form and we can see whether
this form actually makes sense and so
what do you think is the denominator
here this is the length of document
total number of wood multiplied by the
probability of the word given by the
collection right so this actually can be
interpreted as expected account of a
world if we're going to draw a word from
the connection language model and we're
going to draw as many as the number of
words in the document if you do that the
expected account of a word W would be
precisely given by this denominator so
this ratio basically is comparing the
actual count here the actual count of
the word in the document with the
expected account given by this product
if the word is in fact the following the
distribution in the collection this and
if this counter is larger than the
expected count and this part this ratio
would be larger than one so that's
actually a very interesting
interpretation right it's very natural
and intuitively it makes a lot of sense
and this is one advantage of using this
kind of probabilistic reasoning where we
have made explicit assumptions and we
know precisely why we have a logarithm
here and why we have these probabilities
here and we also have a formula that
intuitively makes a lot of sense and
does it here for IDF waiting and
document answer on money let's look at
the duration the price mozi it's very
similar to the case of Jamie smoothing
in this case the smoothing parameter is
mu and that's different from lambda that
we saw before but the format looks very
similar the form of the function looks
very similar so we still have a linear
interpolation here and when we compute
this ratio what we defined that is that
the ratio is equal to this now what's
interesting here is that we are doing
another comparison here now but
comparing the actual count with the
expected account of the world if we
sample mere words according to the
traction or probability so note that
it's interesting we don't even see
talking the Lanfear unlike in the games
mode
right so this of course should be
plugged into this part so you might
wonder so where is document lens
interestingly the talking lens is here
in alpha sub T so this would be plugged
into this part as a result what we get
is the following function here and this
is again a sum over all the match to
clear words and we again see you query
the query from frequency here and you
can interpret this as the element of a
talking in the back top but this is no
longer a single dot product right
because we have this part and note that
n is the length of the query right so
that just means if we score this funking
we have to take a sum over all the query
words and then do some adjustment of the
score based on the document but it's
still it's still clear that it does talk
in the lens from relation because this
lens is in the denominator so a longer
document will have a lower weight here
and we can also see it has TF here and
now idea only that this time the form of
the formula is different from the
previous one in Jane smooth but
intuitively is--there implements TF I
give waiting and talking lens from
Malaysia again
the form of the function is dictated by
the probabilistic reasoning and
assumptions that we have made now there
are also disadvantages of this approach
and that is this law guarantee that such
a form of the formula would actually
work well so if you look back at this
material function although it's tf-idf
waiting and stopping the lens from
radiation for example it's unclear
whether we have sub linear
transformation unfortunately and we can
see here there is a logarithm function
here so we do have also the so it's here
right so we do have the sub Mania
transformation but we did not enhance
do that that means there's no guarantee
that we'll end up in this in this way
suppose we don't have logarithm then
there's no sub linear transformation as
we discussed before perhaps the formula
is not going to work so well so that's
example of the gap between a former
model like this and the relevance that
we have to model which is really a
subject emotion that is tied to users so
it doesn't mean we cannot fix this for
example imagine if we did not have this
logarithm right so again here is the
gray add one or we can even add a double
logarithm but then it would mean that
the function is no longer probabilistic
model so the consequence of the
modification is no longer as predictable
as what we have been doing now so that's
also why for example p.m. 25 remains
very competitive and still open
challenging how to use probabilistic
model to derive a better model than p.m.
25 in particular how do we use query
like code to derive a model that would
work consistently better than being 25
currently we still cannot do that today
our interesting open question so to
summarize this part we've talked about
the two smoothing methods
jellineck Mercer which is doing fixed
coefficient and linear interpolation the
original apply this is the error still
counts to every word and it's doing
adaptive interpolation in that the
coefficient would be larger for shorter
documents in both cases we can see by
using these smoothing methods will be
able to reach the retrieval function
where the assumptions are clearly
articulated so they are less heuristic
experimental results also show that
these retrieval functions also are very
effective and they are comparable to PM
25 of pivot amends normalization so this
is
major advantage of problems model where
we don't have to do a lot of heuristic
design yet in the end that we naturally
implement tf-idf wedding and documents
on tradition each of these functions
also has precisely one smoothing
parameter in this case of course we
stayed in to set this multi parameter
but there are also methods that can be
used to estimate these parameters so
overall this shows by using
probabilistic model we follow very
different strategy then the map displays
model yet in the end we end up with some
retrieval functions that look very
similar to vector space model with some
advantages in having assumptions clearly
stated and then the form dictated by
probably smaller now this also concludes
our discussion of the query like how the
problem is model and let's recall what
assumptions we have made in order to
derive the functions that we have seen
in this lecture well we basically have
made four assumptions that I listed here
the first assumptions that the relevance
can be modeled by the query likelihood
and the second assumption with Mary the
query words are generated independently
that allows us to decompose the
probability of the whole query in the
product of probabilities of all the
words in the query and then the third
assumption that we have made is if a
word is not seen in the document that
within the length its probability be
proportional to its probability in the
collection and smoothing with the
connection and model and finally we made
it one of these two assumptions about
the smoothing so we either use chain
smoothing authorship the price mozi if
we make these four assumptions then we
have no choice but to take the form of
the retrieval function that we have seen
earlier
fortunately the function has a nice
property in that it implements tf-idf
weighting and documents formulation and
these functions also work very well so
in that sense these functions are the
last
purest compared with the vector space
model and there are many extensions on
this this basic model and you can find
the discussing of them in the reference
at the end of this lecture
you